## Exploring Threats to Biking in Boston: An Introductory Analysis of Bluebikes, Sea Level Rise, and Crash Incidents in Boston, MA
This project presents an introductory analysis on the threats to biking in Boston, focusing on two main sub categories: infrastructure and climate change. The goal of this project was to gain meaningful insights into challenges cyclists in the city face, and threats that biking in Boston faces. In our Infrastructure analysis, we study the occurrences of bike crashes mapped across the city to investigate factors contributing to these incidents. This analysis led us to a need for more data, such as historical infrastructure data on: bike lanes, intersections, and the improvements into infrastructure. By understanding bicycle crashes across the city, we were able to high risk areas across the city to cyclists. These specific geographical hot spots need further research to understand why crashes are occuring there. Through this report we hope to provide an introductory analysis on the threats to biking in Boston. Regarding climate change, we explored the impact of rising sea levels and the potential emissions saved through increased biking. By overlaying sea level rise data with Bluebike stations, and bike lanes we find what areas are most susceptible to the effects of climate change. Moreover we calculated the loss of biking in Boston, in different sea level rise scenarios.  Finally we quantified the emissions reduced by Bluebike trips in 2022. This clearly highlights the environmental benefits of biking as a mode of transportation. By analyzing both infrastructure and climate change we were able to provide an introductory analysis on the complex dynamics between biking, safety, climate change, and sustainability.  

### Data Sources
The data sources for this introductory analysis were mainly sourced and downloaded from Analyze Boston, an open data hub managed by the City of Boston Analytics Team. However, Bluebike Trip data and Bluebike Station data were downloaded through the Bluebike data portal. The Massachusetts municipal boundaries shapefile was downloaded from MassGIS, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts’ open data portal. The data sources utilized in this project are generally broken down into two categories: tabular data and geospatial data. Tabular data includes: Bluebike Trip Data from 2017 and 2022, Bluebike Station data, Boston Police Crash Reports, and Boston Crash Fatality Reports. Geospatial data (in the form of shapefiles) include: Boston Neighborhood polygon, and all sea level rise (SLR) 10% storm event polygons (9 inch, 21 inch, and 36 inch rise), Massachusetts municipalities, and Boston Census Block Groups.


### Summary 
- Technologies used: Python (pandas, seaborn, matplot, etc.), DBeaver, SQLite, Excel
- Performed an introductory analysis of Bluebikes, sea level rise and crash incidents in Boston, MA.
- Established a Dbeaver database using multiple data sources, to create numerous accessible views and tables.
- Developed multiple visualizations showcasing threats, infrastructure and climate change, to biking in Boston.
